Symmetric encryption is a type of encryption where only one key (a secret key) is used to both encrypt and decrypt electronic information. The entities communicating via symmetric encryption must exchange the key so that it can be used in the decryption process.
Asymmetrical encryption is also known as public key cryptography, which is a relatively new method, compared to symmetric encryption.
Asymmetric cryptography, also known as public-key cryptography, is a process that uses a pair of related keys -- one public key and one private key -- to encrypt and decrypt a message and protect it from unauthorized access or use. ... Increased data security is the primary benefit of asymmetric cryptography.
Asymmetric Encryption is a form of Encryption where keys come in pairs. ... Asymmetric Encryption is also known as Public Key Cryptography, since users typically create a matching key pair, and make one public while keeping the other secret. Users can "sign" messages by encrypting them with their private keys.
Hashing is an algorithm performed on data such as a file or message to produce a number called a hash (sometimes called a checksum). The hash is used to verify that data is not modified, tampered with, or corrupted.
Asymmetric encryption differs from symmetric encryption primarily in that two keys are used: one for encryption and one for decryption. The most common asymmetric encryption algorithm is RSA. Compared to symmetric encryption, asymmetric encryption imposes a high computational burden, and tends to be much slower.
Symmetric encryption may also be referred to as shared key or shared secret encryption. In symmetric encryption, a single key is used both to encrypt and decrypt traffic. 
Common symmetric encryption algorithms include DES, 3DES, AES, and RC4. 3DES and AES are commonly used in IPsec and other types of VPNs. RC4 has seen wide deployment on wireless networks as the base encryption used by WEP and WPA version 1.
Symmetric encryption algorithms can be extremely fast, and their relatively low complexity allows for easy implementation in hardware. However, they require that all hosts participating in the encryption have already been configured with the secret key through some external means.
Asymmetric encryption is also known as public-key cryptography. Asymmetric encryption differs from symmetric encryption primarily in that two keys are used: one for encryption and one for decryption. The most common asymmetric encryption algorithm is RSA.
Compared to symmetric encryption, asymmetric encryption imposes a high computational burden, and tends to be much slower. Thus, it isn't typically employed to protect payload data. Instead, its major strength is its ability to establish a secure channel over a nonsecure medium (for example, the Internet). This is accomplished by the exchange of public keys, which can only be used to encrypt data. The complementary private key, which is never shared, is used to decrypt.
Finally, hashing is a form of cryptographic security which differs from encryption. Whereas encryption is a two step process used to first encrypt and then decrypt a message, hashing condenses a message into an irreversible fixed-length value, or hash. Two of the most common hashing algorithms seen in networking are MD5 and SHA-1.
Hashing is used only to verify data; the original message cannot be retrieved from a hash. When used to authenticate secure communications, a hash is typically the result of the original message plus a secret key. Hashing algorithms are also commonly used without a secret key simply for error checking. You can use the md5sum and sha1sum utilities on a Linux or Unix machine to experiment with hashing.